This man's work may be one of the greatest
contributions to healing mankind, we've come across to date.
Lee Gerdes refers to himself as a Theologian,
cognitive therapist, and above all else, a geek.
And he has the credentials to prove it.
Lee was the person who designed marketing algorithm
based systems for Fortune 500 retailers.
Some of which offer services,
such as the online retail model of
other people who bought this book also like these.
Now he's combined everything he's learned in his lifetime
to create a technology that borrows
from the healing power of neuro-feedback,
and overlays it with computer software,
that in effect, evolves our brains through
creating more neural connections.
The results are astounding.
So you have a background in high tech.
And you've also been involved with endeavors that are,
I think you could call altruistic.
Your work in San Francisco.
Right.
And how did this, how did the two come together
to do what, I think in some cases, people would say,
really create something that's having miraculous effects?
Well I'm in the high tech field in Minnesota.
And so one of the things you want in Minnesota,
in the winter, is to get out of Minnesota.
So that wasn't necessarily the reason.
I did change, but that was, it was certainly part of it.
In Minnesota, the company I was in,
is called Net Perception.
So I was vice president of solutions.
And I needed a way to train my own brain
to go from creative to tactical.
To do RND on the one hand,
and to do tactical application on the other hand,
with consulting, with agreements,
with all of that kind of business work, tactically.
Which everybody pretty much needs this balance, right?
And were you lopsided toward
one versus the other at this time?
Everybody needs the balance,
but not everybody is a male.
Aha.
If I'm a female, I can go from creative to tactical,
and back to forth, much faster than I can if I'm a male.
And by the way, that says a lot for like
political leaders in our country too.
Yes, I want to get to that in a little bit here.
So I needed a way to flip the switch.
And so I found a way to do that, by taking
a basic science that was 30 years old,
called neuro-feedback, and investigating that
with a company in Australia, then another
company in the Netherlands, and then
coming up with some software to train my brain
to click on and click off on one side versus
the other side in a certain way.
And it worked for me.
And I was more than successful, I was very
successful at it, and enjoyed it.
At the same time, my son wasn't
doing it as well as he might.
(laughing)
Care to elaborate?
He was at Iowa State, and he basically had flunked out.
And so I made him a deal, actually I bribed him.
Okay, I'm a dad.
Okay, that's what we do as parents.
And I'm a heavy geek, and so I wanted
him to be a scholar too, and so I made my deal,
that if you let me him, I would pay
for his going back to school,
and he would rock and roll from there.
So he let me train him, train his brain.
And with the software and the technology I developed,
and when I did, and he went back to school,
he went on the deans list just-
From flunking out to the deans list.
That's quite a spike in his GPA.
It was indeed.
1.8 to 3.85.
Very good.
So next question is then, so, is this the bribe
or is this the technology, question.
So we chose about eight other students,
all of whom were flunking out or had already funked out,
we trained them, they all went to the deans list.
Every one went to the deans list.
So now I say, we got something here.
This has some really interesting implications.
Because so often, kids are labeled as non-achievers,
when in fact, it's something entirely different
in a lot of cases.
I would say almost all cases.
Really?
Almost all cases.
I can't really think of the exception to that right now.
Certainly if I had more time to think about it,
I'm a male, and so it takes me longer to think.
But if i had more time to think about it,
certainly I could come up with something.
But almost all cases, that's true.
Can we talk about that,
just that which is phenomenal in and of itself,
which is having a lack of motivation,
versus being lit up and ready to go,
and make things happen in the world.
What is going on in the human brain,
in someone who is lethargic, and just can't
get focused and get going often times?
What have you discovered?
Well, this is actually right back to where we were.
After I trained him and we did the discovery
that other students were responding.
Then the question became, well what's this about?
Why is it, why now?
And why does this technology efficacious, it seems like.
So what's the story?
Well research'll you that in the last 50 years,
the input to the human brain has
increased 10,000 times per second.
Now, the brain beats 10,000 timer per second.
so that's a ten percent hit to the brain.
In other words, society culture has
evolved much faster than the brain.
Okay, so in another 100 or 200 years,
this technology won't be used.
but you know, that gives us 100 or 200 years to what?
Good yeas, good 200 good years running.
So I believe that's the real cause for most of us.
that's it's easy to get out of balance because of that.
And I think that can be seen because almost 30%
of our grade school population in the Unites States
is now diagnosed with ADD.
Right, that was going to be my
next question as a matter of fact.
So from the cradle to the grave,
we have way too much input by way of media,
by way of life experience moving through life,
on every level would you say?
We're just being saturated with information,
images, sounds.
In essence, brain pollution.
Well, most people will tell you I believe,
when they feel stressed in their life.
They say, no more.
Just stop, you know.
Just stop.
And that's valuable information.
But it really isn't pertinent in all
the scheme of things, in terms of,
I mean, the truth is,
we have three trillion neurons.
We use about 3%.
We could literally be 30 times smarter, 30 times.
So how come we're being overwhelmed if
we're using such a small part of our brain?
What is the overwhelm factor that is
creating ADD, ADHD in problems
like your son and his friends were experiencing?
The brain hasn't evolved yet there.
So what we do is we encourage the building
of that brain evolvement.
And we do that by simply encouragement.
And we do it, and then the brain happens to evolve
and it builds its own neuro-nets.
Now neuro-nets are kind of interesting.
If you build your bicept by lifting weights,
your bicept will get big, but then you stop lifting weights
and after a time, what happens?
It weakens again.
Exactly, it atrophies even.
Now if you build a neuro-net,
you ride a bicycle?
Mm hmm.
Have you ridden a bicycle when you were a kid?
Mm Hmm.
Do you now?
Some times, yeah.
There's no difference, the memory's still there.
The memory is still there.
Okay, that's basically proof that
the neuro-net is still there.
Once you develop this neuro net, it stays with you.
The other side of the coin though, is this.
Most of our brain functions, and most of our life,
what we see, what we think, what we say,
what we experience and what we feel,
most of our life is done by automatic function.
Mm hmm, subconscious,
basically motivation of our programming.
Stimuli.
Right.
Response.
So if I now asked you to raise your arm
and you acquest to that, your arm would go up,
because your brain sends signals right.
Your nervous system, through the nervous system.
Muscles contract, arm goes up.
If I now asked you, I say, okay,
I've got a million dollars here.
You have to perspire heavily for me in two seconds.
You couldn't do that, but you would try.
You'd try, you'd be sweating alright,
but it might not show in two minutes.
(laughing)
But, because the perspiration is an automatic function.
Right.
And so what you see there is totally different.
Sure.
Is totally different.
When you train a brain, when you develop it,
and when we do brain state conditioning with a brain,
what happens is that automatic functioning changes.
And it increases.
It gives the person more options, more neuro-nets to follow,
more responses to do.
And it's very, very empowering.
So you're, from my understanding,
when you had to look at the models you were basing this on
in terms of what a healthy and expanded,
and perhaps even more revolve brain looks like,
you turned to the world of Tibetian Buddhism.
Didn't you use monks, that's my understanding?
Right.
And what happened?
The question was, what could be the problem?
And the problem seemed relatively straight forward.
A fast evolving culture, and human evolution
not keeping up.
Right.
I understood that, science understands that.
Second question is, so how do we determine
how your brain and my brain, which are different
as finger prints, how those two brains will get conditioned,
such that they could be optimized.
That's the question on the table.
So I had basically two general philosophies
of understanding to approach.
One philosophy and understanding,
is that which we consider to be a medical model.
In other words, you diagnose the problem,
you see it's right there.
And you look at this person and compare
this person to this event, or this brain function,
to many other brain functions right there
in that particular lobe let's say.
And you see if it's off.
If there's a big delta between them,
okay you try to change this one, because you say it's wrong.
So that's the medical model.
Diagnose it.
The other side is more of a holistic
kind of understanding model.
And that literally, I mean I gotta tell you the truth.
I didn't know beans about it.
You know, I didn't know.
(laughs)
But I did know how it felt.
Right.
And I knew that it didn't feel good
to try to diagnose somebody else's brain function.
Because I didn't understand, i can't understand what
your experience even is, let alone diagnose your brain.
Right.
What I can do though, is tell you,
you know, if you're blissful, and he's blissful
and whatever, and he's blissful,
there's a certain degree of commonality there.
You can see it, you can feel it,
you can experience it,
and you literally love to be around it.
Right.
Right?
So I said, well, what the heck am I,
I'm not so blissful some times you know.
I just came out of the business world for crying out loud.
There you go.
I'm not blissful at all.
So where am I gonna find that?
And I thought, ah, you know.
I'll go to Tibetian monks, and work with them and see
how their state of bliss, and see if I can brain map them.
When I did that, I brain mapped them
when they were in conversation like we are.
i brain mapped them at various stages
of different kinds of meditation.
And I saw that the power they had,
the brain power was huge.
Both, I've worked with two,
both of them had been meditating for over 40 years.
Both were high master level kind of folk.
And essentially, had been there since childhood
is usually, is the case.
Three or four, yeah.
Right, uh huh.
And both were not only blissful,
but very intuitive and very perceptive too.
And so, when I was finished with that work with them,
pondering over, and remember I'm a geek, right?
So I'm pondering over the numbers right?
I get down to the, I want, show me the numbers.
And I got down to the numbers, and when I did,
what I found out was that they both had certain,
for a lack of a better term, ratios.
It's much more complicated that ratios.
But let's say ratios,
between this part of the brain, and that part of the brain
when they're in this kind of state.
I thought, oh, well let me look at other folk,
you know, who are in the, who I've trained
like some of the students we trained, etcetera.
Let me look at their brain patterns,
and see what they were.
And then I say, oh they weren't nearly as close to
that ratio when they started, as when they ended.
Aha.
And so I said, aha, I'll make this an algorithm, right?
And then I'll start looking at other algorithms,
and now we build probably well over 1,000 of those.
And so we look at various frequencies of the brain,
various ways that those frequencies interact all over.
And so, and that's what we use
as a balance in harmonizing plan.
So you're really shooting for
the mean at the highest level.
Not going for a societial average.
Which wouldn't really be helping a lot of people, right?
For that particular person too.
Right.
Because, note that
if you go around the office
you'll see some paintings, and those paintings
have all been done by artists we've trained.
And we've trained them for creativity,
and then that's produced some outstanding results.
We've trained composers, we've trained athletes,
we've trained businessmen, and we've trained drug addicts.
And we've trained people on probation.
And we've trained people with depression,
and various other kinds of problems.
So, though you were originally developing this
to enhance brain performance, from whatever your mean was,
and then your sons, and his friends and others,
you have now gone into situations which are
much more pathological even, in some cases.
And you're using it on a whole different level than you had
originally started with, aren't you?
Yes and no.
Yes, because we have an open door policy,
and we've taken everybody.
We've taken people who have every major
kind of problem you can imagine, and many
that you have never heard of.
But no, because we don't diagnose them, and we don't
accept their diagnosis.
There you go.
Yeah, that makes sense.
And we do balance and harmony,
you know, we're pretty simple folk.
You know, we're balance and harmony guys.
I want to find out-
And gals, by the way.
Of course, and let's speak about guys and gals
while we're on that.
How are we, essentially, different?
I see this is going to be a problematic conversation.
(laughing)
I bet your husband is not gonna like me when we get done.
Well it's, he's an adult and he's evolved and
whatever it is,
Alright
we'll both handle it.
Okay, cool beans.
So what is essentially, the difference between
male and female brain?
Number one, let me first tell my own wares, okay?
Okay.
Number one, our brain's about 10% larger.
Number two, our occipital lobes are probably,
considerably larger, maybe 20% or 30%.
Occipital is where vision happens.
Now when you think about males, and you think about vision,
you kinda put those two things,
yeah, okay thank you very much.
Yeah I get that portrait.
Now, so for the male side, that's true.
They tend to be more one sided, however.
Because the connectivity seems
between the left and the right brains,
going from left being more detail, right being more context.
Okay.
Left being for more analytic,
while right being more artistic, if you will.
The connectivity back and forth for the male,
is severely lacking, compared to the female.
Now there are reasons for that, we believe.
The reasons for that, that have been hypothesized,
is simply that the female in prehistoric times,
needed to remember very distinctly,
about which water hole was safe
for her and her family, for the children.
The male however, needed to forget
the fear he experienced on the hunt.
Uh huh.
If you had a tyrannosaurus rex chasing you from the hunt,
you want you get that out of your system,
because you're not gonna want to go out the next day.
Right, right.
And so we forget stuff, easy, right?
And on the hand, and on the
other hand, we're at to be very narrow.
Focused.
Focused some times.
So when I get in front of my computer some times,
people walk in the office, and talk to me for three minutes,
and I will not know that they're there.
And they think I'm really being, you know.
Dismissive.
At least.
Yeah.
But that's not going on, you're not aware of them per say.
No, and so I had to figure this out,
just for my own personal relationship possibilities,
because they weren't working.
Right.
So, that somebody had to know,
hey I'm not a bad guy, I'm just not thinking
about what you're thinking about, right.
Right.
So, by the same token though,
the female can go back and forth.
And so when you look at people in
situational opportunities like, should I
go into politics, or should I go into this, that?
Well, it makes a lot of sense that what we'd really
like to have, is somebody that can go back and forth
between a creative and tactical application very quickly.
It makes for good diplomatic relations it would seem.
Exactly.
Communication.
Yeah.
Mm hmm, so that's what your earlier comment
was about, about females should be much
more present in the political arena.
Yep.
And at the peace table.
Yeah, all that makes sense.
And so, other than the female having the ability
to move more quickly between the right and left functioning,
are there any other features that are more enhanced
or more deficient in general in the female brain?
Well, because of that right or left movement okay,
at certain points in time, in the hormones,
the system balance, would be more easily off.
Mm hmm.
Okay, so what you'll find is often times,
you'll find females will be more emotional than males.
Okay, you'll often find them to have
hormonal problems more than males.
Though males have, especially after 40,
you'll seem to find those things.
Mm hmm.
So this has something to do with the miscommunication,
men are from Mars, women are from Venus
type of dialogue that goes on, where women might
be looking for a certain type of communication style,
where men are looking for, maybe a very pointed solution
oriented focus, shall we say, conversation.
I suppose.
Yeah, something like that.
You've probably experienced a bit of that.
Uh huh.
I'd like to hear some of the success stories,
some of the things that were particularly profound,
and surprised even you, in the responses that you received.
Okay, when we started,
when we finished with the students and then
I developed an assessment process with the monks,
remember, I am a Theologian.
I am a psychotherapist, but I'm also at heart,
a mathematician, a physicist, I'm a scientist at heart.
So what I needed to do, was test out the,
this was just a bunch of theory.
And we needed to test that.
We needed to test those theories.
So we found ways to do that,
and the only way I knew to do it,
was to start applying the technology to people
and see if we could condition their brains
to enhance their life,
and help them with various problems.
We had success after success, and i didn't know why.
I don't literally know why now.
Okay, I don't want to play like I know something.
Right.
What we do know is this.
That when you balance and harmonize a brain,
various mythologies fall away.
What we didn't know was,
is it efficacious because of technology
and what we've developed, or it efficacious somehow,
about me, and or the people that are
close to me training people.
And so we had to figure that one out.
Second thing we had to figure out was,
is this just a hugely successful placebo, right?
Right.
Or something else.
So to answer the first part, we opened up an office
and we trained someone to apply the technology
who is very good, but who wasn't very skilled
at computers at all, and she wasn't skilled
at psychotherapy, or you know.
She was more, a technician, shall we say, in a sense?
Yes, but she had been a college
guidance counselor kind of position.
Okay, so she had some background in counseling, okay.
And so she was a good listener,
and she had, she was a meditator herself.
So that was hugely, that was good.
So we trained her in a office in Prescott.
And then we worked with the probation department
to train people on probation.
They averaged 33 years old, they averaged 20
years of drug use, they averaged 7 arrests.
Excuse me, 7 convictions.
Some, many more arrests than that.
So the question at hand was, could we reduce the
60% roughly experience of having a dirty urine analysis,
in other words, indicating they had taken drugs,
over a three months period of time.
Could we train people, condition their brain,
and would they reduce that over that
over that same three months period by half?
30%, which is aggressive, but which
if our whole company is based on the fact
that if we can't do something to X, we're not gonna do it.
Right.
It's either to X or nothing.
We're big fat babies from the computer age,
and that what we expect.
You want results, okay.
Yeah, that's what we expect.
So that's what we went after.
And we were shooting for 30%, after three months we had 0%.
None of them had dirty UA.
Wow.
All of them had transformed the way they walk,
the way they talk, the way they thought, everything.
And I just couldn't believe it, you know.
Well that is startling.
I couldn't believe it.
So, second thing, second part of that trial was,
is this efficacious because of it's
manifestation as a placebo, a super placebo,
or is the technology itself the tool?
And so what we did is we took another couple of
clients from Prescott, we also took some clients here,
who were very adversarial to being here.
Mm hmm.
In particular, I remember.
(laughs)
I'm laughing because there's kind of a pay back
in life, you know what.
We call it karma, it comes around, it goes.
Well, so I'm sitting in a pretrial meeting with the judge
and defense attorney and psychotherapist,
and psychologist, and various counselors.
And they go around the table, and this individual
who has had seventeen previous convictions,
two files that big.
they're going to put him away for 17 years.
They've negotiated to 17 years.
It could've been 22.
And i said, your honor, can we have him for just a week?
And the judge looked at me.
He thought, this is rude child right here,
you know, we're not gonna play with him.
So he said, tell you what, you pay for it, and it's a deal.
And I said okay, here's the deal.
You tell him then, today, that he goes
to state prison for 17 years, from the court room,
or he hangs out and goes to Brain State Technology,
three times a day, for the next seven days.
Except that, if he is five minutes late,
there's a warrant for his arrest,
and all things are stopped.
Well, so the judge agreed, okay.
Now, I don't train him.
I have my son train him.
It's working for us.
Was he out on his own recognizance as well?
Yeah, he was out on probation, right until trial.
And so, Peter tells the story.
I should have let him tell it actually.
The guy comes in to the office.
He's a great big guy, he's got tattoos all over him.
And he's not happy about being there.
Like he'd be happy for 17 more years in prison.
Well, but he's not happy about being there.
Okay.
Let's get this damn thing over. (imitates growling)
And so, he was very adversarial, okay.
Seven days later, after many psych evals,
he's still out on probation.
This is a year and a half later.
He's had no arrests, had no dirty UAs, you know.
And he's working and taking care of himself.
Did he say thank you?
He didn't have to.
He's paying taxes for crying out loud.
Wow, who needs a thank you?
Something you and I
don't have to do.
There you go.
That's amazing, so he, at what point
did he drop his resistance and
did you start seeing the changes?
About the second day.
Second day, wow.
Usually with, and then we're taken a number of kids
from juvenile detention.
Their parents brought them here,
and saying you either stay there or you come here.
And they come here, and they're
less than happy about being here.
And generally for them, it's one or two sessions,
and they're totally turned around.
This is falling in the miraculous category,
and what do we do with these-
It's actually not at all.
It's so boring, really.
Well, like common standards of what
the modality is being used up until now.
Let me explain why it's really not at all.
Because when we went there to deal with probationers,
what we had assumed, was that we would see imbalances
or let me give you an example.
In two lobes of the brain, both sides,
we might look at a set of frequencies,
and we would expect those frequencies to be about the same.
You know, to go up about as high,
about as low on both sides, okay.
However, when we somebody with maybe 20% higher
on one side than the other, that's a imbalance,
and we would train that to help them.
We might do that for a golfer.
We might do that for somebody.
We might see the same thing with somebody who's depressed.
On and on, various people, we would see that.
Maybe some times we would see 50%.
Once in a great while, we would see
something that would be 100%.
Be four on this side, it would be eight on this side, okay.
For that population, we say 300%, 800%, 1600%.
There was no doubt in the world,
when they were self medicating, than they were rascals.
Right.
You know, and there was no doubt
in the world why they changed.
And by the way, 87% of them are still working,
no dirty UA, a year and a half later, and no arrests.
Absolutely amazing.
What do we do with all the little kids who are on
over-stimulation, over-driven now, taking Ritalin.
We'll find a way, but we have to have
points of light or influence.
We have to have people that they're able to look at
and say, I want to be like her, I want to be like him.
Right, that's what we need.
But the parents really are the gate keepers.
I know, but you know what,
we haven't got any heroes anymore.
I'm big on, I'm wanting to
see some heroes.
Very true, very true.
We just haven't got em.
Well in the past, we had heroes, and then
that was before the media was able to get
too deeply into their private lives as well.
I mean, that's changed the
hero, zero status.
That is true.
Way to go, you did good work guys.
(laughing)
So let me tell you, let me give you an example
of what happens in a situation
where one person in the family
feels others are tarnished.
Or they've lost respect for them.
What happens when we train that individual,
is that they develop their own nets and brain flexibility.
And they are able to relate, to see in their own brain
how these people could've made that error.
You can call it forgiveness,
okay, on the spiritual side.
Or understanding.
You could call it understanding.
You know, we call it brain flexibility.
You know, cause that's sort of nondenominational.
But you could call it anything you want it.
But the truth is that,
and Doctor Tiller, who we work with as a scientist if-
William Tiller.
Yes a scientist from Professor Emretis from Stanford.
He would call it being coupled with the
reciprocal self in quantum space.
You know, you can call it many things.
but the truth of the matter is,
the result is all the same.
You add flexibility and oneness to your consciousness.
And that's a huge, that's a big deal.
That's really a big deal.
That's a really big deal.
That's a big deal, yeah.
Well-
Nobody comes in to us however, let me tell ya.
And says, "Hey guys, you know what I want today,
"I want some one-ness man!"
Oneness!
(laughs)
They come in to us instead and say,
"Well I'm here so I don't have to go to jail."
Oh okay.
Good enough, they're on their way to one-ness.
Absolutely.
Well, would this be an appropriate time
to show us on the screen, some examples
of what a balanced and highly evolved brain
neuro-network would look like,
compared to one that has been...
Let me show you an actual recording of a session
of one that was out of balance,
Okay.
and went back in.
Okay, perfect.
Because that may answer
all of those questions.
Perfect.
In this case, what we're gonna see,
is we're gonna see a woman who came to us fine times.
This was her sixth session.
She was here as part of our weight management trial.
We started a couple of years ago.
We were developing a weight management protocol.
But she was here for that, and in her sixth session
she came in and she was crying
and told us that this was the last time
she could participate.
In the previous two weeks, she had lost her job.
Her husband had lost his job, and her mother had died.
So that, she and her husband were moving to
Southern California some place, the next day,
where he had achieved an opportunity at work,
an employment opportunity.
So what we said to her, well I don't think
weight management is quite applicable tonight.
Why don't we instead take a look at your depression.
And so she had a history of depression throughout her life.
she had been on various meds.
Again, the woman was over 40 years old.
So what I'm going to show you here,
is at the bottom of the screen right here,
along this edge, or frequencies from 0 to 40.
And we could actually think of having
a 40 string guitar here, okay.
Mm hmm.
That brain is going, we're going to capture
brain waves using an electrode like this.
It has a little insert in it.
On the computer then, we see these frequencies
from 0 to 40.
Now what we do is, in this particular screen,
we're going to display those frequencies in color.
Okay.
So, how hard you hit each of those strings
on 40 string guitar, zero being the lowest base,
40 being the highest.
How hard you hit them will be revealed
by the color of them.
So, how much energy they have,
how loud they are, effectively.
This woman knows that she doesn't want to be depressed.
And therefore she wants her brain to do her bidding.
Okay, so as we start this, to replay this,
you see that this bar is clear at the bottom.
And you see that this activity for her brain at this place,
is very, very low.
Right.
All over.
She's depressed, right.
And that's what, something that you would expect, right.
Press down, very little activity.
Lethargic, all of those things.
Now you do see some energy that come up here, right?
See it come here, see it here and here.
Well I'll pause this for a second.
This energy comes up here,
but you'll see a slight little line along there.
Yes.
This slight blue line is just at
the top of the subconscious.
So what you have here, is you have a way
to see and understand brain wave patterns.
Very interesting.
When, if I had a pipe sitting here,
and the bottom of the pipe was zero,
and the top of the subconscious was here,
this part would be pushed out a little bit.
But then, right above it, it's black.
And this part would be squeezed.
Now think about that.
When if you did that with water, coming in from the bottom,
and squeeze it, all you would do
is shoot a stream out, just like a nozzle on a hose.
In this case though, what we see here,
is this energy comes in from the bottom
and it can't get past the subconscious.
Can't go any further.
Now what she's hearing during this time,
is she's hearing the sounds made by her brain
when her brain fires close to the area
that we want it to fire in, to be optimized.
Now, I'm sorry we don't have speakers,
or you could hear it, but
the fact is, that as we continue now,
the brain keeps getting this feedback,
and it keeps getting the feedback.
So now we're at 37 seconds.
You don't see very much activity,
but you can see very slight activity right up in there.
Just slight lines of activity are developing,
but very slight.
And again, you see most of the brain, very subdued.
Not much going on there.
Not much going on indeed.
And now,
coming up here,
you see it start to have a little bit of energy here.
Very, very little, but a little.
And now you see again,
and I'll pause it.
Now you see this energy come in from the bottom.
And this time, for some reason-
It's permeating.
Exactly.
It's gotten through
the barrier of the subconscious.
Exactly.
Uh huh.
And she's starting to
come out of depression right now.
Wow.
And this is a minute and 13 seconds.
Now, what does the brain do?
Is it happy with its being relegated
to an administrative assistant?
You think the ego likes that?
Uh-uh.
It shuts down again,
it shuts down again, right away.
So that's it's own internal
subconscious resistance almost.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Now, again, boom.
This time it allows it up.
Mm, big spike.
And this time though,
it immediately goes dark again.
Again, allows it up, and immediately goes dark again.
Okay, this is the game.
Who's gonna be in command?
That's the game.
Now this time however, the brain says, I like my music.
Yeah.
And here she is.
Now she's getting out of depression.
And this is in a minute and 53 sedconds.
So if we move this down here, so you don't
have to watch it all, to say, 5 minutes.
This is 4 minutes and 43 seconds.
Boom.
Look at that.
Whole different brain.
Now we're cooking.
Yeah.
Now usually, when we activate a brain,
we don't activate it longer than say, six to ten minutes.
But for her, because of the fact that she was
in this special circumstance, remember she's
leaving the next day, so we won't see her again,
we went ahead and we ran her to 17 minutes,
and now you see euphoric brain.
Wow.
And she is very high.
It's a different, it looks like an entirely
different life from 17 minutes ago.
And it was a different life.
She's not thinking about how she might
do away with herself here, she's thinking about
how luck her husband's gonna get that night.
Literally telling us that.
Wow.
And she's thinking about
what she's gonna fix for dinner,
and she's thinking about all the cool things
they could do in California, and she's yada, yada, okay.
Totally different person.
Incredible.
Now, she doesn't sleep this night.
And the next night, she only sleeps half the night.
After that, she resumed regular sleep pattern.
And in 18 months, she hasn't had depression again.
That's amazing.
But this is the exception, not the rule.
Usually to treat this, takes ten to thirty sessions.
And usually it's an investment.
And we don't usually let it go this long.
Some times I think, maybe we should
have a little bit more courage, and do that.
But still, the big thing is, to do no harm.
Now, good point.
Right.
I want to touch on that one if I may.
Uh huh.
After I found out that we could assess things,
and we could help people with this technology,
then the next question on my mind is,
well can we hurt people?
Good question.
Yeah, we can help them, can we hurt them?
So I packed up all my little geek gear.
And took all this stuff that I take.
Trotted off-
And your pocket protector?
At least, how did you know?
Then I went up into a cabin, you know, in Minnesota.
You got a lot of cabins.
Yeah.
I spend a month there, three weeks plus,
and I train myself in every way I could, that was wrong.
So I did the assessment, and then I trained myself
in every way I could.
So I did brain state conditioning on
every incorrect way I could imagine.
And then took copious notes and found out that
yeah, some times if I train myself wrong,
I wouldn't feel so good for the next hour or two.
But the brain immediately would go back to homeostasis.
So you were doing all of this on yourself.
Yeah.
Okay.
If I can't do it
on myself,
Fair enough.
can't do it on anybody else.
Yeah.
So, but the brain immediately
went back to homeostasis.
And so after I did that for a three week period,
I said, naa, this is enough.
I'm convinced, I'm ready to go.
The second piece of the matter is,
this is a 30 year science, or 30 year old science,
and in this science, there's never been
anybody known to have a serious
problem from training incorrectly.
So the ability to harm someone is as
close to zero as we could possibly get.
So I was convinced of that, and now
I'm ready to proceed.
In summary, what are you looking to do
with this in terms of your offering to the world?
What are you hoping to achieve, pic picture?
We do something exceedingly well.
And that is, we marry technology with human need.
That's what we do.
So what we're doing, taking it to the world,
is we're going to have various providers of the service,
and then we're gonna collect all the data,
and then we're gonna hone, and hone, and hone, and hone,
our protocol, and our processes
technologically, such that we're gonna come up to be
able to say things that you never thought possible.
For instance, here's a propensity to to have breast cancer.
Here's a propensity for this.
Here's a propensity for that.
Or when you have it, here's the way
to train it to reduce it of get rid of it.
That's what we'ere gonna be able to do.
And we're gonna be able to do it in two years or less.
If you enjoyed this incredible information,
you might also enjoy the words of Burton Goldberg,
who addresses cancer in some of the new insights
and diagnostics available in this field.
For more information on Lee and Brain State Technologies,
please click on the link below.
Until next time, thanks for watching.